okay guys I'm opening this video with a
peer-reviewed article I'm going to ask
you to try to set aside your attachment
to the particular personalities of the
particular people that provide the
context for why I'm making this video
and most likely for why you're watching
it you can probably see from the first
recheck that's up on screen this is from
a formal medical journal and appeal to
Authority who's the author PhD born in
1965 he has published approximately 400
peer-reviewed publications and is a
member of the editorial board of 18
peer-reviewed journals
professor and chair Department of
Hygiene and epidemiology I've
highlighted epidemiology I would guess
that's why he has a somewhat more
critical and insightful view on this
particular matter
okay we commence antidepressants in
particular newer agents are among the
most widely prescribed medications
worldwide with annual sales of billions
of dollars the introduction of these
agents in the market has passed through
seemingly strict regulatory control over
a thousand randomized trials have been
conducted with antidepressants
statistically significant benefits have
been repeatedly demonstrated and the
medical literature is flooded with
several hundreds of positive trials
positive in quotation marks both pre
approval and post approval however two
recent meta analyses question this the
first meta-analysis use data that were
submitted to the FDA for the approval of
12 antidepressant drugs while only half
of these trials had formerly significant
effectiveness published reports almost
ubiquitously claimed significant results
quote/unquote negative trials were
either left unpublished or were
distorted to present positive results
the average benefit of these drugs beast
on the FDA data was of small magnitude
while the published literature suggested
larger benefits a second meta-analysis
also using FDA submitted data examine
the relation
between treatment effect and baseline
severity of depression drug placebo
differences increased with increasing
baseline severity and the difference
became large enough to be clinically
important only in the very small
minority of patient populations with
severe major depression in severe major
depression antidepressants did not
become more effective simply placebo
lost effectiveness these data suggests
that antidepressants may be less
effective than their wide marketing
suggests pause I just say this is a
formal peer-reviewed journal article in
a medical publication that's about as
harsh as you're gonna get any judgement
in that context you can check out the
full article this is just the abstract I
did read the conclusions of the full
article and several the sections that
were more interesting to me if you hear
medical experts like Peter Breggin
speaking live and extemporary you will
get harsher language of condemnation of
of antidepressants what they are and
what they don't do but in peer-reviewed
medical journals
that's about as as harsh as it gets you
have to know how to read that with due
weight and graphic short term benefits
are small and the long term balance of
benefits and harms is under studied I
discuss how the use of many small
randomized trials with clinically non
relevant outcomes improper
interpretation of statistical
significance manipulated study design by
a selection of study populations short
follow-up and selective and distorted
reporting results has built and
nourished a seemingly evidence-based
myth on antidepressant effectiveness and
how higher evidence standards with very
large long-term trials and careful
perspective meta analyses of individual
level data may reach closer to the truth
and closer to clinically useful evidence
the title of the article I note
effectiveness of antidepressants : an
evidence myth constructed from a
thousand randomized
growls point is it's shocking to me that
not once does Christina mentioned
treatment in this video it's ridiculous
if you think you were struggling with
depression please go seek professional
help please go see your doctor when I
finally did when I finally drummed up
enough courage to make the call I got an
appointment literally the next day I got
into the doctor they gave me the
questionnaire you can find it online I
scored off the charts and I was
prescribed medication I had an
appointment with a psychiatrist right
then and there
literally 45-minute appointment and went
to my you know Walgreens afterwards got
my medication and that was it it took
like not even two hours my main problem
with this video is that it comes across
as she is telling people what to do and
how to feel and how to get through their
depression again without recommending
treatment and and just thinking certain
things but for many of us our brains are
so diseased quote-unquote that we we
aren't thinking rationally if you're
feeling like that and if that's stopping
you from getting treatment because you
feel like it's stupid like you shouldn't
feel that way you're being stupid by not
getting treatment go get help and it's
it's not your fault it's not because
you're a bad person or a stupid person I
know I just said you're being stupid but
I'm joking obviously it's not because
you're stupid it's just because there's
something there's something wrong with
your brain that medicine might be able
to fix or again maybe just treatment a
combination of the two we need to
acknowledge that there are people who do
eat right who do exercise who do manage
their stress who do get enough sleep and
they still suffer from depression we've
been dealing with this for a decade and
a half at least eating various different
diets and I've struggled with depression
through all of it the only thing that
has eradicated my symptoms completely is
drugs not pot or anything like that but
an SSRI I'm really fortunate that I
responded positively to the drug to the
SSRI that I was given to the first one
that I was given that's awesome and even
then there's still a side effect of the
drug that I don't like I don't like it
at all
you know at the end of the day I had to
choose between my mental health
and this side effects going away to of
course of course I chose my mental Oh
SSRIs and sexual dysfunction
SSRIs definitely target these
neurotransmitters and could lead to
sexual dysfunction sexual dysfunction
meaning I may not be interested in sex I
may not be able to achieve an orgasm I
may not be able to get it up if I'm a
guy there are a lot of different parts
to sexual function as a whole so that
kind of runs the gamut being interested
in it being able to have it and being
able to achieve an orgasm the main kind
of antidepressant that is the most
popularly prescribed are the SSRIs these
are medicines that that increase
serotonin transmission and when you
start to push on the doses of these
SSRIs you start to lose some sort of
quintessential feminine things I mean
first of all it becomes much harder to
climax and it becomes much much harder
to cry but you also see decreases in
empathy insensitivity in passion but
then there are those of us like myself
who live really good lives and we have
nothing in our life that we would change
and yet we're still depressed for people
like me it's not about self-love it's
not about going outside and hugging a
tree like it's about fixing our brains
the only thing again the only thing that
stopped it was getting on a drug that
literally fixed my brain
it's all based on the idea that the
drugs are somehow rectifying some
underlying problem and until we
understand that they're not doing that
or that we've got no evidence that
they're doing that we don't really know
how to interpret the evidence we've got
so for example if you give children a
sedative drug like an anti-psychotic and
measure their mania schools their mania
schools will go down a bit they will be
less hyperactive less irritable and
they'll sleep more that doesn't mean
that we've cured anything or done
anything very useful what we've done is
we've sedated those children and until
we understand what the drugs we give to
people are doing we don't know how to
interpret the evidence that's my
position on it why because people talk
about fantastic results but people have
always talked about fantastic results
with all sorts of therapies that we now
know were completely useless and often
quite dangerous so you have to do proper
studies and what the proper studies show
as you probably know is that drugs like
antidepressants are only very minimally
different from a placebo and that
minimal difference in my opinion is
because they are psychoactive
mind-altering drugs they make people
feel different they suppress their
emotions of it so that's what we're
doing to people that's why we need to
understand what the drugs are that we're
using what sort of effects do they have
what sort of mind altering behaviour
altering effects do they produce and I
think that the effects that say
antidepressants produce are just not
useful
I don't see why being a little bit
suppressed emotionally is going to help
someone and feeling a bit groggy and
having your libido taken away that your
libido taking away I don't see why
that's going to help someone who's
depressed I'm not I'm saying is we
really have no evidence that these drugs
are curing depression it just so happens
that there is a robust peer-reviewed
literature proving that every single
claim every single assumption and every
single recommendation unnatural vegan
makes in this video he is false
dangerous and harmful to you the viewer
why why didn't she do the bare minimum
that she demands other youtubers do why
didn't she do those few Google searches
why didn't she read just a few
peer-reviewed articles like the one I
read out to you
at the start of this video why didn't
she consider some of the contrasting
views and look at the methodology for
how it was anyone scientifically had
come to these conclusions how it was
that we constructed the model that
depression is a quote unquote disease
that there's a quote unquote chemical
imbalance in the brain
who who came up with that notion I know
the answer it was Eli Lilly corporation
and I can now provide for you a series
of video clips talking through the whole
intellectual marketing and scientific
history of how these misconceptions were
were constructed mass marketed became so
influential and then were debunked as
pseudoscience why do people respect the
opinion of a natural vegan why is her
opinion regarded as more important than
someone like fully rock resina
whom she is presuming to criticize in
this video I think unnatural vegans
position is that someone like fully rock
Christina takes anecdotes about their
own personal experience and without duly
considering the hard science the facts
of health research or what have you
makes recommendations to reviewers that
are not only factually false but could
actually be dangerous and harmful to
them I can state as a fact a scientific
fact that what unnatural vegan is doing
in this video is making scientifically
false and not just potentially harmful
but actually harmful recommendations to
you the viewer in telling you that you
like her can go out and with
doing any of the google searching or
research without any the peer-reviewed
studies without considering the evidence
without considering the effects without
considering the effectiveness let alone
the side effects that you yes you can
fill out a questionnaire that you find
on the internet go in and have a 45
minute consultation with an expert and
then be handed over a set of
mind-altering drugs - ring drugs SSRI
antidepressants that at this point it is
no exaggeration to say or debunked fad
science from the 1990s not just science
that's been discredited but really
science that never was credible to begin
with this is a bizarre and ironic
situation in which our natural vegan is
guilty of exactly the things she
excoriates others for being guilty of on
her channel for you as a viewer I know
you may feel some personal attachment to
a natural vegan you may feel she's
charming
you may feel she's attractive you may
have watched her reviews of food
products and feel you can relate to that
you may have seen her deal with briefly
or at length um
seemingly trivial questions in a
rigorous scientific manner you may have
seen her doing an enormous amount of
research to justify her personal choice
to put artificial sweetener in her
coffee and you see that and respect that
and think wow this is someone who did
all this google searching and looked at
all these peer-reviewed articles just to
figure out whether or not it was healthy
or I don't know marginally unhealthy and
acceptable to take Splenda sweetener and
add it to her coffee surely this must be
the kind of person who would engage in
rigorous scientific examination and deep
introspection before making this leap to
take a mind-altering drug that has
serious side effects serious health
consequences and that sits on such a
shaky empirical basis and she isn't
that's not who she is at all by her own
account a natural vegan was a young
who studied philosophy in university
I've never heard her talk about any
original research she did in philosophy
or any other field I've never heard her
mention a single job she held not in
philosophy nor in any other field I've
really heard very little about her
real-life experience that could inform
her in these ways up until quite
recently and I knew her YouTube channel
back in the day she was someone who
jumped on one fad diet after another one
crazy hippie superstition base
pseudo-scientific lifestyle after
another with one of them destroying all
of her teeth because she read a fad diet
book believed in natural hygiene
believed crazy theories that you didn't
have to use shampoo didn't have to use
soap and didn't have to use to face that
you should get rid of fluoride etc and
she had an enormous number of cavities
as a result lost a lot of her teeth
she's someone who jumped on the
bandwagon for freelee and durianrider
'he's ridiculous unlimited calories high
sugar diet gained a lot of body weight
and then reached a breaking point and
she tried to transform her channel
transform her public image and transform
her life from being I don't know a
superstitious hippie cult follower to
being an arch Li skeptical science-based
leader of public health research opinion
that's not who she really is I can
sympathize I can see the pathos in her
story I can see her own desperation to
just feel better but a natural vegan
what you're doing here is just as
dangerous
just as deceptive just as dishonest as
anything you've criticized on fully raw
Christina's dream and to be honest it's
going to harm a lot more people
Brydon Apple rap straight from out the
salad pastor haters gonna hate my true
where them bottles at so we can pop
cokes at the head and pour some on the
floor cuz these [ __ ] dead I've
understand